Ericka Christie and Caroline McCraw
Professor Hopwood
DIGH 402
March 18, 2019
P R O J E C T    S T A T E M E N T


In public school systems, student and teacher data determines everything from student matriculation to teacher retention to school funding. Teachers are largely excluded from the meaning-making process of their students' and their own data, and the powerful pedagogical tool of self-evaluation is left completely out of the equation. As quantification of data has become increasingly valued as an "objective" assessment of teachers, there has been little room made for valuing the qualitative spaces of teacher-as-reflective-practitioner. There is a need for teachers to be empowered to generate and interrogate their own data in order for such information to be meaningful, contributing towards teachers' professional growth and an increased understanding of the system that they operate within. By creating a self-evaluation app for teachers, our project will ask how social scientific data can be entered with humanist priorities, and how these humanist interventions can contribute towards improving educational evaluation systems. We are interested in diving into data "like a pool" and recalibrating qualitative and quantitative value in order to critically and creatively reconsider what educational data might look like. 


In considering the current landscape of evaluative data in education and taking into account both the daily and long-term needs of educators, we plan to develop an application that allows teachers to collect, analyze, and self-evaluate classroom practices on their own terms. By empowering teachers to develop and track their own artifacts of progress, such an application has the potential to intervene in the one-sided narrative of quantitative data. This holistic approach to data collection and evaluation will contribute to a more balanced discussion and understanding of educational evaluative standards. In order to achieve a final prototype, we will engage with the collaborative and transparent GitHub platform for project management and storage for Python coded tools that we develop to explore alternative ways of processing teaching data. The final content will exist in an app form, containing plain text, data input using Python processing, light graphics and data visualization, and a PDF export function. In the first iteration of this app, teachers will be able to track, manage, and archive quantitative and qualitative data: value-added scores, class EOC/EOG scores, class quarter/semester/final grades, formal evaluations, student feedback, portfolios, and student artifacts alongside self-evaluative narratives and customized self-reflective tagging. 


Our audience for the initial release of the DIY data app will be educators within the Chicago Public Schools system.  We plan to expand the project to include educators and their data from outside CPS in future iterations, but at this point, the product will target primary and secondary school CPS educators; for now, there will not be a focus on addressing the other unique needs of university or higher education teachers.  Beyond the initial release, the primary user community of this project would be public school teachers who are interested in documenting, self-assessing, and tracking their progress as an educator alongside and in contrast to standardized evaluative techniques.