Kaleidoscope - Usability Testing Script
Based on script by Steve Krug


Hi, [PARTICIPANT NAME]. My name is [FACILITATOR NAME], and I’ll be walking you through this session. 


Before we begin, I have some information for you, and I’m going to read it to make sure that I cover everything. 


You probably already know, but let me explain why we’ve asked you to come here today: We’re testing the prototype for an app that we’re working on to see what it’s like for actual people to use it. 


I want to make it clear right away that we’re testing the app, not you. You can’t do anything wrong here. In fact, this is probably the one place today where you don’t have to worry about making mistakes. 


As you use the app, I’m going to ask you to think out loud as much as possible: to say what you’re thinking. This will be a big help to us. 


Also, please don’t worry that you’re going to hurt our feelings. We’re doing this to improve the app for users, so we need to hear your honest reactions. 


If you have any questions as we go along, just ask them. I may not be able to answer them right away, since we’re interested in how people do when they don’t have someone sitting next to them to help. But if you still have questions when we’re done, I’ll try to answer them then. 


If you need to take a break at any point, just let me know. 


Do you have any questions so far? 


Before we look at the app, I’d like to ask you a few quick questions. 


What is your relationship to or experience with teaching in the classroom?
What kind of websites do you often visit online?
What kind of apps do you most frequently use?
Which devices do you most frequently use to go online?


Thank you, that’s great. 


We’re done with the questions, and we can start taking a look at the app. 


Now I’m going to ask you to try doing some specific tasks. I’m going to read each one out loud and give you a printed copy. Take as long or little as you need to complete the task; interact with or explore the app as much or as little as you want to before, during, or after each task. 


This is a semi-functional prototype, so some of the interactive elements are limited. Just let us know when you think you’ve gotten as far as you can with a task. 


You will be using the app on a mobile device, but swiping functions are not yet correct— for now, try to tap rather than swipe!


Again, as much as possible, it will help us if you can try to think out loud as you go along. 


[Hand iPhone to participant with first tutorial screen open] 


[Hand participant Scenario 1, and read it aloud. Allow the participant to proceed until the task is complete or the participant becomes frustrated. Repeat for each task.] 


Scenario 1:
You are a high school P.E. teacher who wants to mark each day that has full attendance throughout the semester. With this in mind, how would you document the first day of full attendance?


Scenario 2: 
You are a high school history teacher who just led a particularly engaging lesson on the Industrial Revolution. The markerboard is full of insightful student comments and diagrams, and you noticed that even the shyest students were actively participating. How would you document this day using the app?


Scenario 3:
You are a high school language arts teacher about to meet with your supervisor. You would like to show your supervisor the data you have collected comparing student EOC scores with the frequency of group work in your classroom over the past four semesters. How would you e-mail a PDF of this data to your supervisor?


Scenario 4: 
You are a high school chemistry teacher who is trying to recall a classroom activity that you documented last week. How would you find the note that you saved on Monday, April 9, 2019?


Scenario 5: 
You are a high school art teacher who wants to quickly upload your lesson plan each day from the home screen. How would you go about customizing the home screen to allow this?


Thanks, that was very helpful. Do you have any questions for me, now that we’re done?